hey folks Craig McHugh here from my
small farm today
we're gonna be talking about waters for
your animals in particular we're going
to look at two different models one is
in open water the second is a nipple
water and both are heated for seasoned
waters okay first one we're gonna take a
look at is it's an open water this is a
heated water it's made out of
polystyrene and it is it is done very
well for us it has a float valve inside
that controls the amount of water in the
unit it has a heater in it to keep the
the plumbing from freezing it works very
well
we we primarily have a goat dairy here
so it has a few drawbacks as you can see
inside there it gets very gunky very
quickly it's also right at bottom height
so if a goat just happens to be standing
there and it almost seems like there's
on a daily basis somebody's standing
there they have a tendency to leave a
deposit in there which means we have to
come along and clean it all out and
scrub it all out
overall a good system as far as
sanitation I think it is it can be a
source for bacterial infections and for
your animals and also it is a lot of
maintenance a lot of cleaning that has
to be done with it
one of the advantages of this is when we
have babies it makes it very easy for
them to we actually have a brick that
they can jump up on and drink out of
this it's very easy they don't need a
whole lot of knowledge how to drink out
of the nipple water so it's good for
training babies but overall a good
system has some sanitation issues which
we're always worried about keeping
things as clean and sanitary as possible
okay next we're gonna talk about is a
nipple water this is a commercially
available nipple water by a company
called trojan this is our first year
using it it's actually worked really
well for us it's heated it's stainless
steel what happens is when the goat
comes up to it or the animal comes up to
it can be used for both goats and hogs
they simply bite down on the water and
it releases the water into their mouth
works really well hasn't it we haven't
had any freezing issues with it and it's
also very sanitary so there's no open
water the water that they're drinking is
always fresh and always you know not
sitting around so far so good with this
product it's it's actually double sided
you'll see there's there's we have it
set up for both sides overall very good
product has some downsides one of the
problems we have the probably the
biggest problems we have with it is when
the goats are drinking on it they tend
to bite on it and they tend to let a lot
of the water fall out of their mouths
and so what you'll see on the ground is
it gets sort of soupy and swampy now we
have this poured on a concrete slab but
unless you keep that cleaned up it tends
to get pretty wet and mucky and
eventually you will get you'll get bugs
and you'll get things that are living in
that water it's a nice little home from
them so there's some cleanup that has to
happen the other thing we found is in
the winter time as they do that it'll
actually build up an ice sickle I kind
of a reverse icicle that tends to sit
there and freeze and and and just make a
big mess so it does have some drawbacks
in terms of water you can see on the
ground it's always wet near this unit
possibly if we were going to do it again
we could put a some sort of drain but
again if you have animals there they're
going to poop in that vicinity the drain
is going to be constantly clogged so
really we let it run off into a small
kind of gutter area but it is always wet
which is a bit of a frustration
you